[Term Entry] Kotlin/Strings/partition (#3904)
Codecademy/docs: content/kotlin/concepts/strings/terms/partition/partition.md

---
Title: '.partition()'
Description: 'Returns two strings from the characters in the parameter string that satisfy a given predicate.'
Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Kotlin'
  - 'Booleans'
  - 'Strings'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**`.partition()`** takes a string parameter and returns two new strings. The first new string contains those characters that satisfy a supplied predicate, and the second new string contains those that do not satisfy that predicate.

A predicate takes an argument and returns a boolean `true` or `false`. If `true` is returned, the argument is said to *satisfy* the predicate. Otherwise, the argument does not satisfy the predicate.

## Syntax

```psuedo
xString.partition(xPredicate)
```

> Where `xString` supplies the string to be partitioned by the predicate `xPredicate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **xString:** This supplies the string to be partitioned by the predicate.
```

> 

Reviewer: explain here what is `xPradicate like you did for the `xString` above

## Example

> The following example uses the character method `.isUpperCase()` to partition a string into uppercase letter characters and other characters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example uses `.partition()` and the character method `.isUpperCase()` to partition a string into uppercase letter characters and other characters:
```

```kotlin
fun main () {
  val sampleString = "AbCd12/"
  println(sampleString.partition(){it.isUpperCase()})
}
```

> This outputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example results in the following output:
```
